[Flow] Add process_exporter component (#3014)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/prometheus.integration.process_exporter.md

---
# NOTE(rfratto): the title below has zero-width spaces injected into it to
# prevent it from overflowing the sidebar on the rendered site. Be careful when
# modifying this section to retain the spaces.
#
# Ideally, in the future, we can fix the overflow issue with css rather than
# injecting special characters.

title: prometheus.​integration.​process_exporter
---

# prometheus.integration.process_exporter
The `prometheus.integration.process_exporter` component embeds

> [process_exporter](https://github.com/ncabatoff/process-exporter) for collecting process stats mined from `/proc`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[process_exporter](https://github.com/ncabatoff/process-exporter) for collecting process stats from `/proc`.
```

> [process_exporter](https://github.com/ncabatoff/process-exporter) for collecting process stats mined from `/proc`.

Reviewer: Do we want to mention which operating systems this component works for?

## Usage

```river
prometheus.integration.process_exporter "LABEL" {
}
```

## Arguments
The following arguments can be used to configure the exporter's behavior.
All arguments are optional. Omitted fields take their default values.

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`procfs_path`       | `string`                 | procfs mountpoint. | `/proc` | no

> `track_children`    | `bool`                   | If a proc is tracked, also track any of it's children that are not part of their own group. | `true` | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`track_children`    | `bool`                   | Whether to track a process' children. | `true` | no
```

> `track_threads`     | `bool`                   | Report on per-threadname metrics as well. | `true` | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`track_threads`     | `bool`                   | Report metrics for a process' individual threads.  | `true` | no
```

> `gather_smaps`      | `bool`                   | Gather metrics from the smaps file, which contains proportional resident memory size. | `true` | no

Reviewer: Can the info about proportional resident memory size be moved to a blurb outside of the table?

```suggestion
`gather_smaps`      | `bool`                   | Gather metrics from the smaps file for a process. | `true` | no
```

`recheck_on_scrape` | `bool`                   | Recheck process names on each scrape. | `true` | no

## Blocks
The following blocks are supported inside the definition of `prometheus.integration.process_exporter`:

Hierarchy        | Block      | Description | Required
---------------- | ---------- | ----------- | --------

> process_names          | [process_names][]  | A collection of matching rules to use for deciding which processes to monitor. Each config can match multiple processes, which will be tracked as a single process "group." | no

Reviewer: This description is also pretty long, you can make this shorter like `Rules for deciding which processes to monitor.` and then move the longer description to the intro sentence of the `process_names block` section.

[process_names]: #process_names-block

### process_names block
Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`name`       | `string`                         | The name to use for identifying the process group name in the metric. By default, it uses the base path of the executable. (See below for template variable details). | `{{.ExeBase}}` | no
`comm`       | `list(string)`                   | A list of strings that match the base executable name for a process, truncated to 15 characters. It is derived from reading the second field of `/proc/<pid>/stat`, stripped of parens. | | no
`exe`        | `list(string)`                   | A list of strings that match `argv[0]` for a process. If there are no slashes, only the basename of `argv[0]` needs to match. Otherwise, the name must be an exact match. For example, "postgres" may match any postgres binary, but `/usr/local/bin/postgres` will only match a postgres process with that exact path. If any of the strings match, the process will be tracked. | | no

> `cmdline`    | `list(string)`                   | A list of regular expressions applied to the `argv` of the process. Each regex here must match the corresponding argv for the process to be tracked. The first element that is matched is `argv[1]`. Regex captures are added to the .Matches map for use in the name. | | no

Reviewer: The descriptions here are quite long. Can you use shorter sentences and move more detailed explanations to outside of the table?

Author: Will do!

The `name` argument can use the following template variables: 
- `{{.Comm}}`:      Basename of the original executable from /proc/\<pid\>/stat.
- `{{.ExeBase}}`:   Basename of the executable from argv[0].
- `{{.ExeFull}}`:   Fully qualified path of the executable.
- `{{.Username}}`:  Username of the effective user.
- `{{.Matches}}`:   Map containing all regex capture groups resulting from matching a process with the cmdline rule group.
- `{{.PID}}`:       PID of the process. Note that the PID is copied from the first executable found.
- `{{.StartTime}}`: The start time of the process. This is useful when combined with PID as PIDS get reused over time.

## Exported fields
The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components.

Name      | Type                | Description
--------- | ------------------- | -----------

> `targets` | `list(map(string))` | The targets that can be used to collect `process_exporter` metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | Targets that expose `process_exporter` metrics.
```

---
# NOTE(rfratto): the title below has zero-width spaces injected into it to
# prevent it from overflowing the sidebar on the rendered site. Be careful when
# modifying this section to retain the spaces.
#
# Ideally, in the future, we can fix the overflow issue with css rather than
# injecting special characters.

title: prometheus.​integration.​process_exporter
---

# prometheus.integration.process_exporter
The `prometheus.integration.process_exporter` component embeds
[process_exporter](https://github.com/ncabatoff/process-exporter) for collecting process stats mined from `/proc`.

## Usage

```river

> prometheus.integration.process_exporter "LABEL"{

Reviewer: ```suggestion
prometheus.integration.process_exporter "LABEL" {
```

}
```

## Arguments
The following arguments can be used to configure the exporter's behavior.
All arguments are optional. Omitted fields take their default values.

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`procfs_path`       | `string`                 | procfs mountpoint. | `/proc` | no
`track_children`    | `bool`                   | If a proc is tracked, also track any of it's children that are not part of their own group. | `true` | no
`track_threads`     | `bool`                   | Report on per-threadname metrics as well. | `true` | no
`gather_smaps`      | `bool`                   | Gather metrics from the smaps file, which contains proportional resident memory size. | `true` | no
`recheck_on_scrape` | `bool`                   | Recheck process names on each scrape. | `true` | no

> `process_names`     | `process_matcher_config` | A collection of matching rules to use for deciding which processes to monitor. Each config can match multiple processes, which will be tracked as a single process "group."

Reviewer 2: I think this 1 goes in a blocks section and gets dropped off this table. Check out another doc with blocks at the top level for an example.

Reviewer: +1, we don't put blocks in the arguments section.

### `process_matcher_config`
Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------

> `name`       | `string`                         | <pre><p>The name to use for identifying the process group name in the metric. By default, it uses the base path of the executable.</p><p>The following template variables are available:<ul><li> {{.Comm}}:      Basename of the original executable from /proc/\<pid\>/stat.<li> {{.ExeBase}}:   Basename of the executable from argv[0].<li> {{.ExeFull}}:   Fully qualified path of the executable.<li> {{.Username}}:  Username of the effective user.<li> {{.Matches}}:   Map containing all regex capture groups resulting from matching a process with the cmdline rule group.<li> {{.PID}}:       PID of the process. Note that the PID is copied from the first executable found.<li> {{.StartTime}}: The start time of the process. This is useful when combined with PID as PIDS get reused over time.</ul></p></pre> | `{{.ExeBase}}` | no

Reviewer 2: maybe do a short description in the table for long ones and more details below in paragraphs. I think that's how others are done in this situation.

Reviewer: +1 try to keep the description in the table as short as possible so the table remains easy to view. 

Longer explanations can be done outside of the table.

`comm`       | `list(string)`                   | A list of strings that match the base executable name for a process, truncated to 15 characters. It is derived from reading the second field of `/proc/<pid>/stat`, stripped of parens. | | no
`exe`        | `list(string)`                   | A list of strings that match `argv[0]` for a process. If there are no slashes, only the basename of `argv[0]` needs to match. Otherwise, the name must be an exact match. For example, "postgres" may match any postgres binary, but `/usr/local/bin/postgres` will only match a postgres process with that exact path. If any of the strings match, the process will be tracked. | | no
`cmdline`    | `list(string)`                   | A list of regular expressions applied to the `argv` of the process. Each regex here must match the corresponding argv for the process to be tracked. The first element that is matched is `argv[1]`. Regex captures are added to the .Matches map for use in the name. | | no

> The following template variables are available: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `name` argument can use the following template variables: 
```
